# Detecting-Information-Dense-Text

The goal of this project is to develop a system which identifies information dense news text. The task is to develop a supervised classifier based on feature engineering that classifies the given documents as either information dense or non-information dense texts. We believed that combination of Binary Lexical, Syntactic Production Rules, Mutual Information, MRC-Databases and MRC-Concreteness features would result in better accuracy as each of them would uniquely identify and differentiate certain characteristics of information and non-information dense texts. Moreover, we wanted to find out how the prediction results would be affected by training the model on different subsets of development data. Based on the results we have obtained, we conclude that Binary Lexical features, MRC-Databases, Mutual Information and MRC-Concreteness encapsulate the general information about the words that would be present in information dense and non-information dense texts, thereby aiding the classifier in determining and differentiating between both kinds of texts. Although, they try to achieve the same goal by gathering information about the words, the manner in which each of them encapsulate information is fundamentally different and would lead to encapsulation of different characteristics of text files. Similarly Production Rules will encapsulate the information about the structure of texts that would aid in differentiating the two kinds of texts. In Addition, our work on training the model with different subsets of development data showed that training the model on a subset of high quality data gives better performance than 10 fold cross validation on entire development data.
